from Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number two 70
recorded live Thursday, June 9th, 2011. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by teller at rad controls.
The most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
open source developer. Andrea's Hawkinson
about his dotnet micro web
framework called Nancy. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today we're going
to be talking about a
Sinatra inspired web framework for
the.net platform. It's called Nancy.
If you're familiar with Sinatra,
then you don't understand why
it's named Nancy. We're actually
talking long distance to Andres
Hawkinson, also known as the
code junkie. And if you've
seen him on Twitter, you're
familiar with his avatar that
he uses everywhere. How are
you, Andrea? Thanks for talking
to us today. Yeah. Hello.
I'm doing fine. How are
you? Very, very well. So
Nancy is the name of
your framework and it's inspired
by Sinatra. What is Sinatra?
Oh, well Sinatra is a
web framework, Ruby web framework
for building building websites with
minimal effort. It's very low
ceremony approach to building websites.
What does, what does that
mean? Low ceremony. There's not
a lot of set up
and configuration you have to
do to get started. And
basically you just type a
couple of lines of code
and you you've got a
basic website up and running.
Well, what's an example of
something that's high ceremony. I
mean, that's an interesting word.
Sometimes Ruby folks use words
like, you know, ceremony and
an aesthetic and beauty and
things like that. Why is
it important to have low
ceremony and what is an
example of the opposite of
that? I build websites for
a living and I use
web forums and asp.net MVC.
And so that's, that's like
the background I came from
and sometimes the framework really
like gets in the way
for the things you really
want to do. Like you
have to do a lot
of configuration or set up
this and die and drop
controls everywhere, wire up stuff,
just to do basic stuff.
And so I wanted a,
a way to do that
on a framework without, without
all the fuss Is that
you need first, like a
web config file or fuss
like a bunch of preparation.
I mean, w was it
your goal to strip this
down to the simplest possible
thing you could? Oh yeah,
definitely. It like, I don't,
we don't want the web
framework to get in the
way of what you really
want to do is like
build a website. So you
shouldn't have to create a,
like three or four files
just to get a text
on a page or go
into a config file and
say, I'm wanting to use
this and that. And so
with Nancy, you can just
create a single file and
write two lines of code
three lines of code. And,
and you're done, You use
the term web framework, but
the folks that are listening
might be, it might be
web forms, programmers, or they
might be NBC programmers. They're
probably a few Java and
Ruby folks. Are we talking
about serving web pages or
is this some other kind
of web framework You could
say it's for billing web
pages, but you could, you
just, you can just use
nasty, like a backend that
Jason backend for age Xtreme
and website, or if you
use it to build a
restful end point or whatever
you want to do, serving
the HTML content is just
one thing you can do
with Nancy is it doesn't
have to be All right.
So I guess what I'm
trying to understand is is
this a data services and
point, is this a something
I would use instead of
maybe WCF or along with,
I'm trying to understand the
bigger, the bigger picture, the
larger story here? It doesn't
seem like it's, it's something
I would use in replacement
of asp.net. But if I
had some, some application like
a Gmail or a Twitter,
or I had a windows
phone or an iPhone, and
I wanted to make Jason
calls that I could use
Nancy as the end point
that I would talk to
to get my data. Like
you just said, like a
Jason data service. So is
this services oriented or, But
it's also a replacement for
like MVC or is p.net
web forums. You can build
an entire website on, on
NASA, or if you're on
Ruby, you can use Sinatra
that kind of frameworks works
for building websites as well.
Like we support all the
different view engines and all
that for serving up HTML
content. Interesting, interesting. So the,
the basic or the, the
hello world Nancy that people
typically see is someone goes
and makes a new class.
So, you know, public class
Scott and they derive from
Nancy module, they make a
constructor. And then in that
constructor, they immediately start to
finding routes. So right there,
it is different from asp.net,
MVC, where by default routes
are centralized here, you create
the routes and what the
routes do and, and the,
the work that is being
done all in the same
line. So basically, hello, world
is one line. You basically
say, get you open a
square bracket. You put in
the path that you want
it to respond to. And
then you write a Lambda
that says, here's what I
want you to do. So
I could say, get the,
actually put forward slash hello,
world return, hello world. And
basically I've written a Nancy
site. Is that right? Yeah,
that's correct. We, we try
to make the web framework
staying in the background for
you or the framework, stay
in background for you and
give you some help to
do stuff. So when you
like just return, hello world
internally, Matthew will take care
of setting up eight HTTP
headers and a response body
and all that for you.
Is this something that is,
I see that it uses
an HTTP request handler, but
is this something that's tied
to, to asp.net MVC, or
might I want to use
this somewhere else? So we
built Nancy to be a
host agnostic, so you can
run it basically wherever you
want. We have our own
request and response objects. So
Nancy uses a concept that
we call hosts that is
more or less an adopter
between IIS and nasty. So
you could host a host
Nancy on top of like
asp.net with the SV request
timer. And it would translate
the HTTP requests to a
nasty request, pass it in.
And when Nazi response, it
converts the response to something
that asp.net kind of understand,
but you can just as
well hosted on anything like
we have hosts for running
Nancy on top of WCF,
we have a host that
we call the cell phone
that is basically a built
on top of a HTB
a listener. So you could
embed Nazim into a desktop
application if you wanted to
and expose a, a HTTP
HTD based API, if your
application, or a small web
server in your application as
well. So you can, you
can basically run Nancy on
top of whatever you want.
We support a host for
the Oh, win or open
web interface for.net. So once
you start to get, Oh,
when running on different servers.
So because now you can
run on top of that,
out of the box as
well. Now, we, we talked
actually to Benjamin Vanderveen in
the, some of the Owen
folks and a couple of
of shows ago. And the
idea that they had was,
I think it's similar to
the concept called rack in
rails, which is the thing
that you have that serving
your services or your webpages
shouldn't necessarily be directly tied
to your web server. So
they have a very thin
layer such that, you know,
there's rails, there's the little
tiny adapter, and then there's
the web server. So Owen
appears to a little web
layer that you would write
to a little, a little
adapter, and then I could
have IIS or Apache or
whatever else or, or, or
some tiny web server. There's
lots of little small web
servers, including some C-sharp example,
web servers is Owen moving
forward. Is it happening such
that I could make my
web applications slightly more portable?
Oh, I talked to Benjamin
yesterday about it, and he's
working on getting his webs
or kayak running on the
latest specifications. So we can
start running Nanci on top
of kayak instead. So in
terms of Nazi and Owen,
where Owen is an abstraction
layer from whatever, you're running
it on, we add on
an additional abstraction layer from
Nancy. So we can written
Nancy on asp.net WCF or
whatever, but we also have
an adapter that allows us
to communicate with a Owen
hosts. So once the Owen
starts running on different servers
like kayak or whatever servers
they're out in the dotnet
a system masses, we'll be
able to run on top
of that. Hm, no, I'm
noticing a lot of interest
in this, in this space
lately. And I think for,
for folks that aren't kind
of deeply involved in the
community or folks who maybe
aren't on Twitter or kind
of paying attention, I think
there's a, you know, for
every one of you or
I, there's probably a hundred
or a thousand folks that
are just doing their jobs
and trying to get things
done. And then every once
in a while, they'll listen
to a show like this
one here, and they'll say,
wait a second. There's there's,
there's Sinatra and there's Nancy
and there's Martin and there's
monos. And there's, there's Owen.
What is all this stuff?
For example, I know that
there's a, there's one called
monos, which is a web
application framework. That is a
kind of standalone small application.
There's one called Martin, which
is similar to Sinatra and
similar to, to Nancy there's
there's kayak. There's also open
roster, which has been around
arguably, probably the one that's
been around the alternative that's
been around for the longest
time. How does one keep
track of all these? And
how do I pick one?
It seems like it's almost
a picking. One of these
would be a little dangerous
because how do I know
it's not going to be
dead in a year? I
guess that's always a risk.
You're taking a, we decided
to license Nancy. I under
the MIT license, it's probably
a free as it can
get. So it's open source.
The community can do whatever
it wants with it. It
should, I, for some unknown
reason, lose interest in Nancy
and the community can carry
on if they want to.
We only, we're already starting
to get a pretty decent
community. That's contributing to NASA.
I mean, it's always a
risk if you choose an
open source project, but yeah,
I'm not sure. I'd say
some will probably stay. They're
not her. So Is that,
is that something that you
think is, is reasonable to
tell the, you know, kind
of the average Joe out
there, who's trying to decide
about using an open source
project? I mean, you had
said, well, maybe you, you
lose interest, which is one
thing. Or, you know, you
could disappear. I think we've
all followed people on the
internet, programmers who, you know,
you go to their blog
and you haven't seen a
thing in a year and
maybe the person disappeared or
they moved to another country
or they lost control of
the domain. Or maybe they
just got hit by a
bus. Do you think that
smaller projects are safer projects
to, to use an in,
in, in a, in a
business? Like if I have
an enterprise and I decide
to use Nancy, is it
safer because it's only, you
know, some number of thousands
of lines of code versus
maybe a giant framework or
something large like MVC or
DotNetNuke or something like that,
should it should lines of
code and size of project
go into how I decide
to use something. You should
probably factor it in because
if the project least support
you, you can always continue
supporting it by working on
a source code yourself, and
then this smaller code base.
Yeah. The easier it will
be to, to understand and
pick up. And you, you
don't have to lose a
lot of time to figure
out all the mechanics of
the framework. So of course,
if you have clean code
your life of code, good
documentation, it's probably a better
bet to use. But I
mean, which framework you choose
probably will come down to
what you need out of
your framework. Like, like you
mentioned earlier, they're starting to
do up here, a lot
of different alternatives. You mentioned
a few, and there's a
bunch of water, not dry,
like or different style frameworks
popping up. And, and what
differentiates them is probably dependency.
One division you have for,
for the framework we have
for Nancy, we have a
certain vision of how we
want websites or web framework,
sorry, web end points to
be built. And if that
suits your need, and maybe
Nazi's a good fit for
you. If, if, if AC
Don MVCs for filling all
your goals. I see no
reason why to like migrate
Recent developments in the.net world
have opened up a niche
for a free.net decompiling tool.
And if you like so
many other developers have been
looking for an alternative dotnet
decompiler, you're certainly welcome to
watch the launch of just
decompile. It's a new, powerful
tool. It's going to be
free forever. It's currently available
in beta, just decompile offers
a dotnet decompiling and assembly
browsing code analysis, navigation side-by-side
assembly loading, automatically updates, and
even better decompiling accuracy than
you're used to it's by
leading.net vendor. Tellerik our sponsors.
And it's got a very
aggressive release schedule and a
roadmap all based on community
feedback, you can visit the
just compile feature suggestion form,
let Tellerik know what features
you'd like to see added
or vote on one suggested
by your peers. The launch
will be in the summer
and you can check them
out@tellerik.com slash.net. Decompiling what do
you think about some of
the new Microsoft stuff that's
being worked on? I know
that Glen block is working
on a web API, and
he's been working closely with
the, the Owen folks and
talking to them on their,
on their Google group a
lot. Do you think that
there's room for a whole
lot of these? I mean,
there's at least six that
I can think of these
small micro web frameworks. Is
there room for them or
should Microsoft pick one or
should Microsoft stop working on
their own? I'm curious as
a, as a person who
kind of has a, a
horse in the race as
it were, what you, what
you think about that? Alright.
I've known Glen for a
long time and ever since
back in his meth days,
and I checked out the
stuff they've done and I
talked to him a lot
about it, and I think
they're doing a great work
about it. I think the
Microsoft stack needs something like
this. I mean, it all
comes down to your needs.
In some, some enterprises, corporations
using open source probably will
never be an option. You
probably won't get to do
anything unless it's supported by
Microsoft. And in those cases,
I Le I'd rather be
able to use like the
web API or something. Yeah.
Something like the web API,
because I liked the approach
they're taking then being forced
to use. I don't know,
web forms, if you're able
to, if you pick and
choose from the open source
community as well, again, it
comes down to the style
of how you want to
do stuff. Was the duty.
If you're a vision of
how, how to build the
stuff you're wanting to build,
like matches the vision of
the project. So I definitely
think there's a room. I
like diversity. We don't see
any way. When I see
we, the, the guys are
working on nasty. We don't
see the web API or
FUBU NBC or OPA Ross
does a competition because frankly
people should choose what fits
their needs. And if it's
Nancy for long project and
good for us, if it's
FUBU NBC for another project,
good for them. So we
w w I've talked to
Glen a lot. I've talked
to Jeremy Miller about FUBU and
Nancy and Sebastian for open
Ross Jackson for Manoa. And
everybody, I get the impression
that everybody feels the same
because we share ideas and
help out and solve problems.
And it just works out
fine. Do you think that
one will, will win? Cause
I remember that about year
and a half ago, we
were all wondering between jQuery
and MooTools and mochi kit
and, and you know, why
UI and all these kinds
of things. And then we
blinked in a year, went
by, and then there was
only jQuery. Do, do you
think about stuff like that?
Like, like we did, when
we think about JavaScript libraries
or do you just kind
of go on and you'd
make the best framework that
you can make and then
whatever happens, happens. Yeah. Like
I said, we're not trying
to compete on if, if
Nazi becomes the, mostly about,
sorry, I used one and
sure. We'll be happy about
that. Cause we believe in
the, in the framework and
we're passionate about it. And
of course we want as
many people as possible to
use what we're building. And
I don't think there's room
for like 10 or 12
to get become mainstream, but
a couple of them are,
are probably going to, to
do better than the rest
of them. And, and most
likely not because one is
much better than the other,
because like I said, with
Jay Carrere and the RF
framework, it just took off.
I was a, I was
looking at a blog post
by a fellow named Mike
had lo who wrote a
blog post called an explosion
of alternative web frameworks and
basically noticed all of these
different frameworks like Nancy and
Nina and Owen and, and
monos. And one of the
things that I thought was
interesting that he said in
his blog post was, he
said that we know we've
had monorail for a number
of years and then also
there's FUBU MVC, and then
an open roster. And he
called out open roster as,
and this is a quote,
the only one that attempted
to break away from the
stranglehold of asp.net and build
its own HDP abstraction. I
think stranglehold is a little
bit harsh, but how important
is it for a.net framework,
specifically a.net framework to not
run on asp.net? Well, if
you're running on ASP dot
and ads, you're probably confined
to IIS as well. I
think I asked this a
great tool, but not for
everything I'd like to be
able to, to build smaller
stuff, maybe on kayak. And
we've definitely tried to break
free from asp.net and Nancy.
We are targeting client profile
when we're building our, our
framework. So we have no
dependencies on systems about web
at all. We have provide
our own abstractions if you
want. We're also able to
run on a mano. We've
had nasty Ron on, on,
on OSX and Linux on
different web servers. And I
think quite again, it depends
on the size of organization
and what you're doing there.
More people are, are doing
startups on mano now. And
I think, I think that's
a good option to let
you choose if you want
to, which operating system and
which web servers you want
to run, and you can
pick the one that fits
your wallet more or less.
I guess I'm trying to
understand that again, I work
for, I work for Microsoft,
but at the same time,
I've only been there three
years. So I'm not trying
to be a apologist like,
Hey, what's the big deal,
but it doesn't. I just
don't see the, the stranglehold
of IIS is it the
visit, the stranglehold of the
licensing that you have to
pay for it. And then
you just, you know, you
want, you might want to
go mano, you might want
to go something smaller or
is it just one of
those things that it's just
a good idea to abstract
away your integration points? Again,
I think it, people should
be able to decide which
hosting environments fits their needs
the best. And we decided
on this very, are, are
they only mass just to
provide the abstraction ourselves? So
if people wanted to use
asp.net, we were more than
happy to help you because
we provide the opportunity hosting
to do so. And if
you, if you want to
run on mano on Apache
or engine X or whatever,
and then we want to
help you do that as
well. I mean, we don't
want to, we don't want
to say, if you gotta
use Nazi, you have to
use this operating system, this
web server, this database and
whatever. I mean, that's not
for us to choose. We
are not that opinionated. Hmm.
Okay. That, that, that makes
sense to me, that that
kind of resonates the idea
that, that, who are we
to tell you what, what
you want to use or
don't want to use. So
give them the flexibility to
choose, and then they'll make
the decision that they feel
like making. Yeah, probably maybe
90% end up using windows
NIS. And that's totally fine
because to be honest, the,
the investment we we've made
to make it possible to
run on different configuration, isn't
that big. So, because we
started fresh, we basically got
it freight. Hmm. That's cool.
I noticed another thing that
was blogged. It was blogged.
I'm not sure who this
fellow is here. You can't
tell him he doesn't actually
have his name on his
blog, but he basically was
blogging about a tweet that
Rob Connery sent out where
he says a dotnet Sinatra
clone is the new black
actually here it is. His
name is Martin ru@invalidcast.com. And
he says a dotnet Sinatra
clone is the new black.
I mean, are you familiar
with that? That term with
something is the new black.
So he's basically saying that
this a very, very stylish
thing to do and that
creating your own Sinatra, cologne
is a, is a good
way to kind of explore
the space and see what
you can see, what you
can do with it. And
he, he is, he's looking
at this explosion a little
differently. What was it about
Sinatra that made you want
to make Nancy? Was it
the, the, the, the syntax,
or was it the, the
challenge of making your own
framework? No, I definitely liked
the Centex a lot. Like
you mentioned before you combine
the, the, the intent and
action, I guess you could
say in a single line
of code, if you want
to, it's very Sinatra and
Nancy applications, and I can't
speak for the other, your
inspiration inspired frameworks usually have
very little code in them
as well. And they work
well for, even if you're
building a larger website or
if you're like doing an
Ajax or adjacent endpoint or
whatever, it works out pretty
well. And you don't, you
don't get more than you
need. We've tried to build
NASA in a way that
we've got a very light
core, but we provide, I
guess you could call them
extensions. We can call them,
don't have a good name
for it that you can
plug into an assay. We
don't, we have a sort
of a request response pipeline
that helps you Jack and
stuff as well. I would
say session support. We, we,
we support sessions, but you
will have to opt in
to get it. If you
don't need it, you don't
need to COVID eat or
for it, or a different
authentication approaches or different kinds
of view and Jens, or
could be whatever Do, how
do I, how do I
serialize objects? Let's say I've
got a, an array of
people. How do I take
those people and, and return
them in, in, in Nancy
and what kind of options
do I have available to
me? So every action in
Nassi actually returns a response
object called response, but then
we put on some, there's
a lot of implicit casting
going on on the response
object. So you can, you
can return as a, an
integer and Nancy were interpreted
as an HTTP status code,
or you could return a
string. And as the word
returned to the body of
the response, or you could
return a, an action delicate
that will be invoked for
like rendering views and stuff.
So you have your list
of what is it, people
in person, and you want
it to return that you
could, what we've done is
let you write extension message
methods on the object. So
as long as you return
any of the, the types
that, and I have to
understand for implicit casting or
our response audit itself, you
can write any extension methods
that you want. So for
Jason, you could do a
response as Jason and just
provide your list and Nancy
and the extension method would
translate that into a, you
know, probably Jason format returned
that essay. I know string.
And because Nancy knows how
to take a string and
turn into response, it works
beautifully. And we ship a
lot of those other box
of like Jason XML image,
a generic file, the name
a few. And if you
want a different Sendak's or
use a different Jason framework
or whatever, you can just
write your own extension method
or, or, or just return
the string yourself. It doesn't
have to be extension method,
but that's the, that's the
preferred and the Explorer, a
Nazi return message. Who's Jason
serializer, are you using, I
mean, if I have my
list of people and it
turns into Jason, are you
using the builtin one, or
do you have plugable We
ended up using the one
from mano, from the Montessori
source base, because we don't
want any external dependencies and
not the Nazis, basically a
single DLL that you can
use. We have everything in
dot DLL, and it's very
small ability to still less
than a hundred K, probably
a lot smaller. So we
ended up using the one
from mano, And I assume
that that's something I can
swap out. I can swap
out anything. I don't like.
You can add whatever dependency
you want to project and
write your own extension method
or, or code to do
to serialization and returning just
as long as whatever you're
returning is in one of
the formats, Dodd nonstandard status,
you can do whatever you
want And, and how do
I, so that's how I
can return data and I
can return it, but I
assume any format I want
serialized any way I want,
I, you know, RSS, I
Cal whatever. What about taking
data in, how do I
get data out of a,
an HTTP post, But in
a Nancy module, there is
a property on a call,
the request object. And from
the request audio, you can
get to the request or
the, we said the request
body, which is currently a,
a stream. And there is
a set of extension methods
for, for reading the stream
as well. Just ask for
riding to the response. And,
and again, you could write
your own extension methods because
basically it is a dotnet
stream on top of the
HTTP request, and you get
all the headers and cookies,
the usual stuff as well
on the request object. Do
I have model binders and
things to help me out?
Or is it, I mean,
how, I mean, I don't
want to go too low
level, but I want to
understand, like, is this like
classic ASP Kind of, if
you want to like, is
that there is model binding
support as well, and it's
there, there's a pretty good
default setup for it. And
again, you can extend it.
If you want to support
more complex model binding scenarios,
we also make quite heavy
use of dynamics. So for
instance, if you do request
on form, it's a special
dynamic objects, a dynamic dictionary
you're having Nazis you can
do. So you have a
post, a, a text field
called name. So you can
do your Nazi. You can
do request.form.name, and you get
the value out to there's.
No, well, you can do
standard dictionary access as well,
but because he uses dynamics,
he gets a pretty nice
index for getting stuff like
quatre string values, form data,
posted form data, header values
as well. But again, you
can use model by two,
if you want out of
the box. So, okay. So
you actually, you support the
notion of model binding and
you, you can, you can
refer to the system, got
web that NPC, or do
you have, you have to
plug that in? We have
our own model binding. I
see, I see. So out
of the box, it's just
one deal and it doesn't
have any, We're totally running
on client profiles. So no
nos dependencies on asp.net or
NBC, or any of those
frameworks at all, furnace for
the core assembly for Nancy.
I see. But if I
choose to that, I can,
I can take that dependency
and go and do what
I want to do. Like
if you want to use,
say the, our spark view
engine, of course it uses
it have the dependencies on
spark itself or, or for
our racer view engine. We
have support for, we use
the racer parser assembly as
well. It's just a nasty
core. Doesn't have the external
dependencies. So we're self contained.
We've modeled by the end
stuff like Jason request, response
objects. And I assume that
Nancy is in, in new
get, and folks can get
it with the install package.
Nancy, There is a bunch
of new gets out there
there's for the Nancy itself
and for the different kinds
of hosts we support like
it's b.net w FC self
hosting. There's a bunch for
view engines like and Django
racers spark. We're adding dot
really soon. A couple of
keystrokes you can set up
hosted On WCF. Very cool.
Very cool. All right. Well,
we'll make sure to put
all of the links that
you share up on the
show notes so that folks
can learn as much as
they want to about this,
and everyone can go and
check this out in a
new kit, and we'll also
link to your gift hub
and to your blog. Fantastic.
Well, thanks so much for
taking the time to talk
to us about Nancy, the
alternative Framework. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.